+++
title = "Mobile Phone Metadata for Development"
date = "2018-08-11"

# Authors. Comma separated list, e.g. `["Bob Smith", "David Jones"]`.
authors = ["Damien C. Jacques"]

# Publication type.
# Legend:
# 0 = Uncategorized
# 1 = Conference proceedings
# 2 = Journal
# 3 = Work in progress
# 4 = Technical report
# 5 = Book
# 6 = Book chapter
publication_types = ["0"]

# Publication name and optional abbreviated version.
publication = "*ArXiv*"
# publication_short = "In *ICMEW*"

# Abstract and optional shortened version.
abstract = "Mobile phones are now widely adopted by most of the world population. Each time a call is made (or a SMS sent), a Call Detail Record (CDR) is generated by the telecom companies for billing purpose. These metadata provide information on
when, how, from where and with whom we communicate. Conceptually, they can be described as a geospatial, dynamic, weighted and directed network. Applications of CDRs for development are numerous. They have been used to model the spread of infectious diseases, study road traffic, support electrification planning strategies or map socio-economic level of population. While massive, CDRs are not statistically representative of the whole population due to several sources of bias (market, usage,
spatial and temporal resolution). Furthermore, mobile phone metadata are held by telecom companies. Consequently, their access is not necessarily straightforward and can seriously hamper any operational application. Finally, a trade-off exists between
privacy and utility when using sensitive data like CDRs. New initiatives such as Open Algorithm might help to deal with these fundamental questions by allowing researchers to run algorithms on the data that remain safely stored behind the firewall of the providers."

# Featured image thumbnail (optional)
image_preview = ""

# Is this a selected publication? (true/false)
selected = false

# Projects (optional).
#   Associate this publication with one or more of your projects.
#   Simply enter the filename (excluding '.md') of your project file in `content/project/`.
# projects = ["example-external-project"]

# Links (optional).
url_pdf = "https://arxiv.org/pdf/1806.03086.pdf"
# url_preprint = "#"
# url_code = "#"
# url_dataset = "#"
# url_project = "#"
# url_slides = "#"
# url_video = "#"
# url_poster = "#"
# url_source = "#"

# Custom links (optional).
#   Uncomment line below to enable. For multiple links, use the form `[{...}, {...}, {...}]`.
url_custom = [{name = "ArXiv Full Text", url = "https://arxiv.org/abs/1806.03086"}]

# Does the content use math formatting?
math = true

# Does the content use source code highlighting?
highlight = true

# Featured image
# Place your image in the `static/img/` folder and reference its filename below, e.g. `image = "example.jpg"`.
[header]
# image = "headers/bubbles-wide.jpg"
# caption = "My caption :smile:"

+++
